I conducted a full factorial design with one paper airplane and three factors of interest, which were having a paper clip attached to the nose, middle, and/or rear of the plane in order to see which combination of these factors would have the most or any impact at all. Each factor had two levels, which were either having the clip on or having it off. With three factors and two levels to each factor, this created $2^3$ = 8 full combinations. Thus, I threw the plane 8 times per replicate. I first decided to conduct a pilot study so that I could determine what sample size I needed to reach 80% power with a high estimate of standard error. After finding that I needed 7 replicates to reach 80% power, I collected 7 new and unique replicates, making sure not to reuse the sample data. The airplanes were not thrown with full power, but instead were flicked forward. This made each of the flights more similar to each other, compared to Lab 2 where throwing the airplanes with full power resulted in wildly inaccurate results. In addition, this allowed me to conduct the experiment indoors, eliminating any issues caused by wind. Finally, note that the values were measured in feet and inches, then converted automatically when entering the data. For example, a value of 5 feet and 2 inches would be inputted into my dataset as $5 + 2 * 0.08 = 5.16$. Similarly, all values were converted to this format for simplicity, which is why many of the data points have similar ending significant digits. This method made the sample size power calculation much easier, as I could use the same standard error values from previous work.


To analyze the data, I first ran a full interaction model to see whether any of the interaction terms could potentially be significant. After running the interaction model, I decided to compare it to a simpler model without any interaction terms, which did a much better job and actually had two statistically significant effects compared to the original model, which produced no statistically significant effects due to the very low Bonferonni-adjusted significance level that came from having seven total terms. Thus, I continued my analysis with the simpler linear model, rather than the full interaction model.

The assumptions for this simple linear regression are normality of the data, no structure to the data (autocorrelation), and equal variances throughout. Before running the linear model, I thought that these assumptions would be satisfied because I had a large enough sample size as given by my sample size power calculation. After visualizing the data, I noticed from the density plot that the data looked to be normally distributed with some slight skew and some potential outliers. This was slightly surprising, but because I had a large enough sample size, it makes sense that all of the data ended up looking normally distributed due to the Central Limit Theorem. I believe because I was throwing in a controlled airless environment, it makes sense that the distribution of the flight distances could look somewhat normally distributed.
